git --version : helps to view the version of the file
git status : helps us to view the status of the files
git add : helps to add the files to tracked list
git add * : helps to add all the files to tracked list
git add file1 file 2 : helps to add multiple files at once to tracked list

Tracking the files helps us to view the changes in the file. 
from untracked files we can't find if the data is added or not. 

git show <commit id> helps to view the details modified during the commit
git log helps to view the list of commits maded on that file (history tracking)

git add * is used to add all files and folders
git add . is used to add all files , folders and hidden files and folders also

git commit . -m "commiting all the files" : helps us to commit all the files which require commit

git config user.name : helps to add our name to changes
git config user.email : helps to add our email to changes


git restore --staged <fileName>
git rm --cached <fileName> 

the above commands are used to untrack the files from staging state.

example : A company has 60 files. manager asked to commit only 55 files and asked to ignore 5 files how it can be done using single command
    step 1 : move the 5 files to .gitignore
    step 2 : commit all the files. 

status : git ignores the files inside the .gitignore for adding or commiting the changes 

git show <commitId> --name-only

the commaond allows us to view the file name for the commit message

git log -n : this command helps us to view the last n commits

how to find the number of commits made to file ? 

git log --follow --all <fileName>

git log -1
git log --stat allow us to view the changes on the file. 

can i chanage author name for existing commit ? 
yes we can. but with conditions. 
we can chane the author and commit message to the lates one only. 

git commit --amend --author "user <user@email.com>" 

git commit --amend -m "this is my lates message"

In git we have one benifit 

we can add all the files in staging state to lates commit message. 

git commit --amend --no-edit